---
title: "Colleagues and Museums in Nuuk"
description: "A 'warm' day in Greenland"
date: "2025-11-09"
categories:
  - Greenland
  - Travel
---

Today I slept in a little bit and had breakfast at the hotel around 9:30 in the
morning. Not long after that, three of my colleagues on the QGreenland-Net
project arrived in Nuuk from the U.S.! We are all staying at the same hotel, so
I waited in the lobby until they arrived. It was great to see everyone
after mostly traveling solo the last week.

Once the new arrivals settled in, a few of us went out for a walk to downtown
and grabbed some snacks/lunch. Today was the warmest day I've had in Greenland,
with temperatures around 40F. It felt fairly warm compared to some of
my days in Ilulissat and I ended up wearing my lighter coat. Much of the
snow/ice covering the ground when I first arrived in Nuuk back on Nov. 2 has
melted.

After lunch, we split ways and I went to the [Nuuk Art
Museum](https://www.nuukkunstmuseum.com), which had some excellent pieces,
including more from Emanuel A. Petersen. One of my favorite parts was a room
that had examples of [Tupilaks](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tupilaq), which
are monsterous figures carved from bone that shamans once made and imbued with
power to fight their enemies. According to Greenlandic mythology, if a Tupliak
is sent after someone more powerful than the creator, the Tupliak will return
and destroy its creator.

Following the art museum, I headed directly to the [Greenland National Museum
and Archives](https://en.nka.gl/the-museum/). I received a fantastic guided tour
of this museum when I visited back in 2023, and wanted to return to look at the
exhibits myself. Unfortunately, I only had about an hour to wander through the
museum because it was set to close, but I still had a great time! The museum
also sits right next to the coastline, so I got plenty of additional views of
the icy waters outside.

![I really like this info panel seen at the Greenland National Museum and
Archives. It covers information about the first humans to settle in Greenland
4500 years ago, how the ice sheet changed from the last glacial period, and a
timeline of the peoples of Greenland from 2500 BC to the
present.](../images/greenland_national_museum.jpg){width=100%}

To wrap up the day, myself and a couple of my collaborators met up again and
went out for dinner. I had a chicken sandwich - nothing too exciting, but it was
tasty and fresh!

Now I'm winding down for the night and looking forward to attending a seminar on
cryosphere research in Greenland tomorrow. This should be a nice opportunity to
network and spread the word about our project to those who might find it
beneficial for their research. And hopefully I'll gain some new knowledge and
connections to improve my own work!

The next several days are going to be full of such events, and I expect to stay
pretty busy! I'll plan to keep this blog updated with some notes on what I
learn.
