---
title: "A short post for a long day"
description: "A busy day at Greenland Science Week"
date: "2025-11-11"
categories:
  - Greenland
  - Travel
---

I am going to keep this post short. Although I could probably say quite a lot
about what I learned today, I simply do not have the energy! It has been a
pretty long day, and I'm ready to get some sleep. Thankfully, I took some pretty
good notes that I will plan to revisit, and perhaps write more about in a future
post.

Today started with the 2nd Biennial Greenland Marine Research Seminar. It
included talks on topics such as algae and marine food webs, upcoming research
expeditions, and monitoring programs. The talk that stands out most in my mind
was about the cruise ship industry in Greenland, which has exploded in size
over recent years. I am rather interested in the idea of tracking such cruise
ships, which can range in size from holding tens of tourists to thousands. In
addition to talks, the seminar included a productive plenary discussion among
participants, and plenty of opportunities for networking during breaks.

The seminar provided lunch, and then I headed off for a stakeholder meeting
about the EU-funded [ICELINK](https://www.icelink-project.eu/) project. The
meeting was focused on seeking input from community members on what information
observation-driven climate/ice sheet models might be able to provide when tuned
for specific purposes on local/regional scales. For example, there were
representatives from Greenland's postal and telecommunications company,
[Tusass](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tusass), who were interested in 5-10 year
projections on conditions that lead to icing on their communication
towers. These towers provide a vital link to remote communitites in Greenland,
and some of them are becoming more prone to icing events that are leading the
company to consider new approaches to combat icing that leads to a degradation
in service. Another group of stakeholders were working in the hydropower
industry and were interested in how the project could use models to determine
possible hydropower capacity in Greenland in the future.

After the stakeholder meeting, I went back to the hotel and rested for a short
period before heading back out for the Greenland Science Week conference
reception, held at the University of Greenland. Dinner was provided, and there
was plenty of time to meet with other participants and do some networking before
the conference begins tomorrow.

Now it is after 10PM, and I need to be at the conference by 8:30AM
tomorrow. Time for bed!
