---
title: "Greenland Science Week Conference"
description: "Day 1 of 2"
date: "2025-11-12"
categories:
  - Greenland
  - Travel
---

Today was the first day of the Greenland Science Week conference. I set off for
the conference at about 8:00AM and finally got back to my hotel at around
8:45PM. I am once again worn out from a long but productive day!

The conference began with some opening remarks and a plenary discussion on the
future of science in Greenland. The panelists responded to questions in
Greenlandic, and I used a headset to hear live translations. The conversation
covered a number of topics, but was centered around the importance of making
local connections and emphasized the vital role of indigenous knowledge in the
study of Greenland.

Most of the rest of the presentations throughout the day were in English, and
covered so very many topics. I heard from people who study and monitor
Greenland's ecosystems, the impact of colonialism, geophysical processes leading
to "pockmarks" (the largest being 800m in diameter!) on the ocean floor adjacent
to Greenland's coast, and so much more! I even had the opportunity to speak with
someone who leads the effort to study and create images of the black hole at the
center of our galaxy - one of the telescopes that is a part of the project is
located in Greeland! In total, there were about 375 participants in the
conference, and their areas of expertise were widespread. The one thing we all
hold in common is our love of Greenland and it's people.

After the talks wrapped up for the day, there was time set aside for a poster
session. My team presented a poster on our project, QGreenland-Net, and I spoke
with many people who were either interested in our work or who already knew
about it and were excited to meet with us.

![A selfie I took in front of my team's QGreenland-Net
poster.](../images/poster_selfie.jpg){width=75%}

Once again, it was encouraging to hear from people who felt that our work is
valuable. I had multiple people get visibly excited when they learned that I
worked on the QGreenland project, and were eager to tell me about how they use
it in their work. I am so proud to be a part of this project!

Finally, we had a conference dinner that included a variety of tasty foods
including reindeer and lumpfish. Everything I tried was delicious. As we wrapped
up dinner, a local Nuuk resident gave a talk about the mythology of Greenlandic
beasts and spirits, which was rather entertaining!

As expected, I am once again pretty worn out after such a long day. I feel like
I have achieved information overload!

Tomorrow is the last day of the conference, and I am looking forward to
it. Probably best to get to sleep so that I have some energy for another long
day tomorrow!
