---
title: "Another day in Nuuk?!"
description: "A change of plans."
date: "2025-11-03"
categories:
  - Greenland
  - Travel
---

I ended up having some fairly rough sleep last night and struggled to get up
this morning (and it was DARK - sunrise wasn't until ~9AM). The first night in a
new place is never as restful as the following ones!

Once I did finally make it to the hotel's modest breakfast buffet and got some
coffee in my system, I was ready for the day! I checked out of the hotel at 10AM
and stored my backpack in a locker for the couple of hours between checkout and
when I needed to head to the airport for my journey to Ilulissat.

I walked around downtown Nuuk, did a little shopping (I got a new shirt to tide
me over until my luggage arrives), and once again went to look at the icebergs
along the cosat.

![A grounded icerberg left behind from
high tide](../images/larger_ice_1103.jpg){width=100%}

![Coastline of ice. I stood here for a while watching the ice flow and crack
apart.](../images/coastal_nuuk_ice.jpg){width=100%}


Eventually, I headed back to the hotel to grab my bag and catch a taxi to the airport. I arrived a little over an hour before my flight, which was pelnty of time to make it through the security screening at Nuuk's new international airport (when I visited in 2023, there was no security, and the airport was quite a bit smaller!). 

Unfortunately, when time came for boarding an annoucment came over the system: a technical issue was causing a delay, and a new update would be provided in 30 minutes. Just my luck! And, of course, the update ended up being a cancellation.

I was rather disappointed by this development, but I couldn't stay upset for long. After all, I am in Greenland! Another day in Nuuk is not so bad!

AirGreenland provided me with a new hotel room and dinner for the inconvenience. And, most importantly, I was rebooked for tomorrow morning at 8AM. The shuttle to the airport is scheduled to pick me up from the hotel at 6AM. It is going to be an early morning.

Once again, I plan to go to bed early tonight and hope I am more well rested tomorrow morning. Here's to hoping my luck fares better tomorrow!
