---
title: "Preparing for departure"
description: "My first blog post!"
date: "2025-10-30"
categories:
  - Greenland
  - Travel
---

The end of October is drawing near and with it, autumn seems to be making way
for winter. In the first half of October, the ash tree otuside my office window
turned from green to various shades of yellow and red, bathing my office with
bright, warm light. Now I'm seeing a nearly bare tree - most of its leaves
knocked off around a week ago when some gusty weather moved through the
area. Although I had enjoyed the fall colors, I now take some joy in being able
to more clearly see the blue sky beyond - normally obscured by leaves.

By this time of October, I'm usually highly focused on embracing "spooky season"
for all it's worth - horror movies, black metal, and Halloween decorations in
abundance. And this year, Halloween falls on a Friday. Any other year, and I
might be planning an evening costume party followed by a lazy "recovery"
Saturday to ease into November's more "warm and cozy" holiday vibe.

But this year, I'm more focused on an upcoming international trip - to
Greenland! On the afternoon of Saturday, November 1, I will begin my journey
with a ~7.5 hour flight from Denver International Airport (DIA) to Iceland's
Keflavík International Airport (KEF).

![Great Circle path between DIA and KEF. The actual flight path will likely
deviate quite a lot from this idealized shortest-distance path.^[I took the same
flight in September on the way to Europe and recall passing just south of
Chicago at one point. I would guess that flying a slightly longer route to avoid
the most remote parts of northern Canada is a tradeoff the airline felt
worthwhile. Image create using `matplotlib` and `cartopy`. Background imagery
provided by Natural Earth.]](../images/den_to_ice.jpg){height=400px}

I will have a ~3.5 hour layover in Iceland followed by a relatively short 2.5
hour flight to Nuuk - Greenland's capital.

![Approximate flight path between KEF and GOH. ^[Image created using [QGreenland
](https://qgreenland.org) V3 with data from Natural Earth and the ASIAQ
Greenland Survey.]](../images/ice_to_nuuk.jpg){height=400px}

If all goes according to plan, I will land in Nuuk around 10:00 AM local time on
Sunday, Nov. 2nd and stay the day there. I do not have any specific plans for
this first day in Greenland, but I look forward to walking around town and
taking in the sights!

The next day, I will fly from Nuuk north of the Arctic Circle to Ilulissat,
Greenland (with a couple of short stops along the way). I plan to stay in
Ilulissat from Nov. 3-8.

![Approximate flight path between Nuuk (GOH), Maniitsoq (JSU), Sisimiut (JHS),
and Ilulissat (JAV). ^[Image created using [QGreenland ](https://qgreenland.org)
V3 with data from Natural Earth and the ASIAQ Greenland
Survey.]](../images/nuuk_to_il.jpg){height=600px}

Ilulissat is Greenland's third largest city (there are about 5k people who live
there), and one of Greenland's most well-known tourist locations.  Ilulissat
translates to "icebergs" - and rightly so! The city sits next to the UNESCO
World Heritage-designated Icefjord, where icebergs generated from the nearby
Sermeq Kujalleq (AKA Jakobshavn Glacier) float out to sea.^[[Wikpedia:
Ilulissat](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ilulissat)]

![Satellite imagery of Ilulissat and environs circa 2019. The red-outlined area
is the UNESCO World Heritage site. ^[Image created using [QGreenland
](https://qgreenland.org) V3 with data from [MacGregor et
al. (2020)](https://doi.org/10.1017/jog.2020.62), NunaGIS, and the ASIAQ
Greenland Survey.]](../images/il_sat.jpg){height=600px}


![Orthophoto mosaic from Sentinel-2 (10m), Spot (1.6m), and Asiaq (0.2m) showing
Ilulissat and a portion of the Icefjord. ^[Image created using [QGreenland ](https://qgreenland.org)
V3 with data from [Data Supply and Infrastructure Agency,
Denmark](https://dataforsyningen.dk/data/4783) and the ASIAQ Greenland
Survey.]](../images/il_ortho.jpg){height=600px}

Needless to say - I am excited for the adventure to come! I visited Nuuk back in
2023 for the Mapping the Arctic conference, and it was an incredible
experience. I have little doubt this trip will prove to be memorable as well.

I plan to post updates during my trip - so stay tuned for more!
