---
title: "Kicking off Greenland Science Week"
description: "An educational day at the local high school"
date: "2025-11-10"
categories:
  - Greenland
  - Travel
---

Today I attended the Cryosphere Seminar that is part of Greenland Science
Week. The event took place in the Nuuk High School, and many students were in
attendance. It's great to see younger folks with an interest in the cryosphere
and science, although many of the students seemed antsy for the seminar to be
over by its end! I did get a chance to speak with a couple of students who
thought it was interesting that so many people were here to talk about snow and
ice - they had no idea there was so much to know and study!

For those students that did have an interest in the field, representatives from
the [Students on Ice Foundation](https://soifoundation.org/en/) (SOI) were
present and provided an overview of their mission and plans for an upcoming
expidention along Greenland's coast. The SOI strives to put students in the
field with experts to have hands-on experience with cryospheric science (e.g.,
digging snow pits, taking water samples, drilling ice cores, etc). I wish I had
had an opportunity to do something like this as a high school student!

Other partcipants at the seminar gave talks on subjects like how the ice sheet
has evolved over time, the pedagogy of snow and ice in Greenland, how glaciers
and melt from the icesheet interact with coastal environments, and the hydrology
of the ice sheet. One of my favorite talks was about marginal ice lakes, and how
they can burst and cause massive flooding in downstream areas.

After the seminar, I had the chance to chat with others in attendance. I was
pleased to hear that many of the people I spoke with had not only heard of
[QGreenland](https://qgreenland.org), but actively use it! One person I spoke
with told me that they "never go to the field without QGreenland on a
flashdrive". Another, a research assistant professor at the University of Texas,
told me that all of his students use QGreenland and find it useful for their
work. It's such a huge motivational boost to hear that QGreenland has been so
impactful.

And as I write this, I realize I have not said much about what QGreenland
actually is in this blog. In short, QGreenland is a free and open-source data
package focused on Greenland for [QGIS](https://qgis.org), a Geographic
Information System (GIS) software package. To put it even more simply,
QGreenland is a bunch of geographic data about Greenland formatted for software
that makes it easy to analyze that data and make maps. 

![QGreenland displaying data from Natural Earth (background imagery) and the
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA) (Lines depicting the Northern Sea
Route, Northwest Passage, and hypothetical Transpolar Route.
)](../images/qgreenland.jpg){width=100%}

QGreenland was originally inspired by a similar package for Antarctica:
[Quantarctica](https://npolar.no/quantarctica/). My role in QGreenland is as a
software developer who has worked to automate the data package creation process
and to curate the various datasets included in QGreenland so that they work
seamlessly with QGIS.

QGreenland is used by a wide audience: 

* Educators use QGreenland to teach about the Arctic and Greenland, and
  geographic information science. In addition to the data package, the
  QGreenland project has produced tutorials and curricula for high-school and
  graduate classrooms.
* Researchers who want to make maps of their own data alongside reference data
  included in QGreenland.
* Scientists who work in the field use QGreenland to help plan their
  surveys. QGreenland is able to be used completely offline, which is important
  in the Arctic where internet access can be very limited or non-existant.
  
QGreenland was developed from a [National Science Foundation (NSF)
grant](https://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/show-award/?AWD_ID=1928393) from 2019
to 2023. I am now funded by another NSF grant,
[QGreenland-Net](https://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/show-award/?AWD_ID=2324765),
which is a collaboration with the NSF Arctic Data Center to expand access to
data about Greenland through the development of new cloud-based tools and an
[ADC-hosted QGreenland data
portal](https://search.dataone.org/portals/QGreenland/Data) that connects to
~47k datasets about Greenland. My team will be presenting a poster and a talk
about QGreenland-Net during the Greenland Science Week conference on Wednesday
and Thursday of this week.
